Hello everyone and welcome to part two connecting javascript.
We learned quite a bit in the last lecture.
So let's take a little bit of a break and just show you how you can connect a javascript file which
is a genius extension file to an h l File.
We're going to open up Adam and the browser for this.
So let's hop over to them now.
OK so here we have Adam text editor open and in the Adam text editor I have two files and empty HTL
files called example that Tim L and a file called my script dot Jess which is also empty at this time.
So what I will begin doing is typing out each team just so we get some basic h tim L here in the Heading
1 and say something like welcome to your bank.
Let's save that and check that it's connected to our browser by refreshing the page.
And here we see welcome to your bank.
Now let's show you how you can actually connect a javascript file for each HTML file.
And this works with the script tag.
So up here we can type script inside of the script tag the open tag and looing to write S or C for source
and then actually input the source of my scripts and those scores from my script.
It's just my script that jacks in it goes in quotes and then we have a close in tanks so it looks like
this.
And you can actually use ATOM to automate this so if I begin to type script here and hit enter you'll
actually get this auto pop up here.
You don't have to really worry about type at this point in time.
So you could just use that as well for the autocomplete.
But basically we're looking for here is just a script that where the first open secret tag has the R
C or the source and pointing to your doc js file and right now these are both in the same directory.
So all I have to do is provide the name.
Now it's actually add some stuff to the Jazz file so we can clarify and check that it's actually working.
So the very first thing I want to do here is in this javascript file I'll put an alert that says Welcome
to your bank
and I will save that and let's refresh this page and we should now upon refreshing see an alert that
says This page says Welcome to your bank and we'll hit OK and no.
Over here in the H Tim L that I'm calling my script before I'm calling anything else in the body.
So the reason that this appeared blank for a second is because I was calling my script before I called
anything in my body and we'll discuss later on what script placement and where it should go has an effect
on your age.
Tim L. But let's continue on with this javascript file.
We'll continue on to her big example.
And going to create a variable called the posit.
And that's going to be a prompt saying how much would you like to deposit today.
Questionmark and then let's say alerts
you of the posited and then we're going to concatenate the actual deposit amount
and then I'm also going to do a console log.
So I will say cancel that log and we'll put something like.
You are a cool person so let's save that refresh our page to reload this javascript and now it says
Welcome to your bank.
OK.
And then it says how much would you like to deposit today.
Let's put in 100.
Click OK.
We get an alert.
It says you've deposited 100.
Now we also had that console log.
So I can check by right clicking saying inspect and here on the console.
I see you are a cool person.
Great.
So that's really all there is as far as connecting a javascript file to NHT mail file.
Again the main thing I want you to get out of this is that there's a script tag and you can connect
it to your javascript source and then whatever javascript you have here will be uploaded.
Whenever you refresh the page or when you actually just visit the page for the first time.
All right thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.